README.md, before:

# ENSIME SBT

This [sbt](http://github.com/sbt/sbt) plugin generates a `.ensime` file and provides various convenience commands for interacting with [ENSIME](http://github.com/ensime/ensime-server).

## Install

Add these lines to `~/.sbt/0.13/plugins/plugins.sbt` as opposed to `project/plugins.sbt` (the decision to use ENSIME is per-user, rather than per-project):

```scala
addSbtPlugin("org.ensime" % "ensime-sbt" % "0.2.1")
```

**Check that again**, if you incorrectly used `~/.sbt/0.13/plugins.sbt` you'll get an sbt resolution error, it really has to be in the `plugins` folder.

You are also recommended to add the following to your `~/.sbt/0.13/global.sbt` (see debugging section below):

```scala
cancelable in Global := true
```

## Commands

* `gen-ensime` --- Generate a `.ensime` for the project.
* `gen-ensime-meta` --- Generate a `project/.ensime` for the meta-project.
* `debugging` --- Add debugging flags to all forked JVM processes.
* `debugging-off` --- Remove debugging flags from all forked JVM processes.

Note that downloading and resolving the sources and javadocs can take some time on first use.

(Copied from [EnsimePlugin.scala](https://github.com/ensime/ensime-sbt/blob/master/src/main/scala/EnsimePlugin.scala#L59))

### Debugging Example

If you do not `fork` your main methods and tests from `sbt` you may be able to attach a remote debugger to the entire session by starting like `sbt -jvm-debug 1337` (check the docs of your `sbt` script, we strongly recommend using [paulp's sbt-extras](https://github.com/paulp/sbt-extras)). However, the vast majority of projects enabled forking and that is when `ensime-sbt`'s `debugging` is useful. 

This sample session shows how easy it is to remotely debug a forked test:

```
crossbuild ~/Projects/ensime-server sbt
> debugging
[warn] Enabling debugging for all forked processes
[info] Only one JVM can use the port and it will await a connection before proceeding.
> jerk/test-only *JerkFormatsSpec
Listening for transport dt_socket at address: 5005
```

at which point, the test will hang until you connect a remote debugger to port 5005. When you are finished debugging, cancel the test or let it run to completion, and then type `debugging-off`.

Note: If you'd like to debug using ensime-emacs, first set your breakpoints, then use ensime-db-attach to connect.

Also note: By `sbt`'s defaults, `C-c` will not cancel a running subprocess. As this is counter-intuitive, this plugin enables `C-c` by setting `cancelable in Global := true` so that you don't have to. Emacs users should recall that in order to send a control sequence to the `sbt-mode` subprocess, prefix the command with `C-c C-l`.

## Customise

Customising [EnsimeKeys](https://github.com/ensime/ensime-sbt/blob/master/src/main/scala/EnsimePlugin.scala#L21) is done via the usual sbt mechanism, e.g. insert the following into `~/.sbt/0.13/ensime.sbt`

```scala
import org.ensime.Imports.EnsimeKeys

EnsimeKeys.debuggingPort := 1337
```

Commit message:

Update README.md with autoplugin sbt.version

README.md, after:

# ENSIME SBT

This [sbt](http://github.com/sbt/sbt) plugin generates a `.ensime` file and provides various convenience commands for interacting with [ENSIME](http://github.com/ensime/ensime-server).

## Install

Add these lines to `~/.sbt/0.13/plugins/plugins.sbt` as opposed to `project/plugins.sbt` (the decision to use ENSIME is per-user, rather than per-project):

```scala
addSbtPlugin("org.ensime" % "ensime-sbt" % "0.2.1")
```

**Check that again**, if you incorrectly used `~/.sbt/0.13/plugins.sbt` you'll get an sbt resolution error, it really has to be in the `plugins` folder.

You are also recommended to add the following to your `~/.sbt/0.13/global.sbt` (see debugging section below):

```scala
cancelable in Global := true
```

Please note your projects' `project/build.properties` need to use a version newer that 0.13.5 of sbt due to a [breaking AutoPlugin change](https://github.com/ensime/ensime-server/issues/672).

```
sbt.version=0.13.8
```

## Commands

* `gen-ensime` --- Generate a `.ensime` for the project.
* `gen-ensime-meta` --- Generate a `project/.ensime` for the meta-project.
* `debugging` --- Add debugging flags to all forked JVM processes.
* `debugging-off` --- Remove debugging flags from all forked JVM processes.

Note that downloading and resolving the sources and javadocs can take some time on first use.

(Copied from [EnsimePlugin.scala](https://github.com/ensime/ensime-sbt/blob/master/src/main/scala/EnsimePlugin.scala#L59))

### Debugging Example

If you do not `fork` your main methods and tests from `sbt` you may be able to attach a remote debugger to the entire session by starting like `sbt -jvm-debug 1337` (check the docs of your `sbt` script, we strongly recommend using [paulp's sbt-extras](https://github.com/paulp/sbt-extras)). However, the vast majority of projects enabled forking and that is when `ensime-sbt`'s `debugging` is useful. 

This sample session shows how easy it is to remotely debug a forked test:

```
crossbuild ~/Projects/ensime-server sbt
> debugging
[warn] Enabling debugging for all forked processes
[info] Only one JVM can use the port and it will await a connection before proceeding.
> jerk/test-only *JerkFormatsSpec
Listening for transport dt_socket at address: 5005
```

at which point, the test will hang until you connect a remote debugger to port 5005. When you are finished debugging, cancel the test or let it run to completion, and then type `debugging-off`.

Note: If you'd like to debug using ensime-emacs, first set your breakpoints, then use ensime-db-attach to connect.

Also note: By `sbt`'s defaults, `C-c` will not cancel a running subprocess. As this is counter-intuitive, this plugin enables `C-c` by setting `cancelable in Global := true` so that you don't have to. Emacs users should recall that in order to send a control sequence to the `sbt-mode` subprocess, prefix the command with `C-c C-l`.

## Customise

Customising [EnsimeKeys](https://github.com/ensime/ensime-sbt/blob/master/src/main/scala/EnsimePlugin.scala#L21) is done via the usual sbt mechanism, e.g. insert the following into `~/.sbt/0.13/ensime.sbt`

```scala
import org.ensime.Imports.EnsimeKeys

EnsimeKeys.debuggingPort := 1337
```
